McLain, Simon: So for first of all, it's such an exciting time to be kind of talking about this topic in the
context of customer interactions. There's been a promise of kind of personalizing customer experiences
at scale for as long as I've been doing this work, which is quite a long time, and with the introduction of
Generative AI and kind of evolving AI technology, we as society are suddenly at the point where that
very ambitious goal seems to be within reach. And I think we'll start seeing organizations invest in the
capabilities to create very bespoke very customized, very personalized interactions across the whole
range of touch points that consumers or customers in the B2B context experience as they interact with
organizations. And this technology is going to be at the epicenter of getting us to a point where
personalization at scale is something that's actually realized.
Buscaino, Raquel: I love that picture you just painted because AI is challenging quite a few industry
assumptions here. So this idea of you can't achieve content personalization at scale. Well, that is now an
assumption that is rapidly being challenged by AI. So what are organizations currently doing when it
comes to customer engagement, and what are some of the ways they should be thinking about
leveraging AI to an even greater extent?
McLain, Simon: So if you think about the breadth of customer interactions in this day and age, there,
there are plenty kind of early in the purchasing process, through advertising, through more tactical
marketing campaigns, organizations interacting with customers and consumers through the buying
process after sales support, on to kind of loyalty to get them back into that purchase funnel again, and a
lot of what companies are thinking through is across the journey, where should they focus, right?
There's broad range of interactions that could be supported by and personalized via Generative AI and
AI technology. But organizations can't do all that at once. We as Deloitte, we're seeing two big themes
kind of emerge in terms of where, in that journey, organizations are focused.
First is around on marketing. If you think of all the breadth of interactions around kind of marketing
campaigns, and the content that's required, organizations are seeing real potential in Generative AI
helping to support those marketing campaigns and associated processes. And I think the other one is in
in customer support. We've seen a tremendous amount of activity for again, customers or consumers
who interact with businesses through contact centers as an example. Increasingly, that technology is
either helping agents with those interactions or ultimately with interactions directly with customers and
consumers. So I think across the journey there is potential for every interaction. I think a lot of the
epicenter for activity has been around kind of marketing and customer support to date with the breadth
of the clients we're working with.
Buscaino, Raquel: And when it comes to both of those, so the two that you just listed there were
marketing campaigns and customer support as two of the big themes we're focusing on. What are some
of the questions that clients have when it comes to integrating these two options. Where is the focus of
conversation heading these days?
McLain, Simon: If you think about the marketing side, a lot of what marketing organizations are doing,
and often with their agency partners is producing content that can be pushed out through the myriad of
channels that they interact with customers with. And again, historically, it's been a pretty manual
process. Large volumes of content. The need for you know, photo shoots and generating this content in
lots of different angles with moods for different customer segments. And if you think about what
generative AI does well, it's pretty good at synthesizing that type of content and digesting large volumes
to create much more bespoke content at scale, and that muscle is now being built within organizations
to be able to do that where they used to produce thousands, tens of thousands, sometimes millions of
images that go out through different channels for different marketing activities. Generative AI is
allowing them to do that much more efficiently. And, as I said, increasingly much more personalized.
And I think those things are coming together in the marketing domain that will allow for, a lot of exciting
interactions to happen in ways that were just not possible both tactically but increasingly, economically.
And I think the efficiency gains that Generative AI can bring in that space to really do that content at
scale is a place where organizations are seeing real benefit.
And then on the contact center side, there's kind of two pieces. One if you're interacting with the
Contact Center, often you're interacting with a person. And there's a lot of Generative AI and AI
technology supporting those agents, to be able to synthesize past interactions, to be able to deliver on
your needs much more efficiently. And that leading organizations are starting to invest in the technology
that you interact with directly. And Generative AI increasingly playing a role in terms of your non-human
interactions with organizations and getting access to the information you need in real time without the
need to go through an agent. I think the adoption in the Contact Center space has been interesting
because many of us have interacted with bots for years. It's just the sophistication of those bots and the
breadth of use cases they can support is evolving rapidly and increasingly. I think we'll see a lot of the
needs that used to require human interaction or require layers of work to support will now be
synthesized with this technology to deliver much more efficiently but also much more effectively.
Buscaino, Raquel: I can speak from personal experience here. Sometimes when you get a bot, your
default reaction is, ‘Oh, man, I got a bot. I wish I could speak to a human.’ It's an interesting paradigm
shift when the bots start to feel very human-like.
McLain, Simon: Yeah. And I think that promise is quickly becoming a reality. We've all kind of looked to
hit 0 or # very quickly when we've gotten the bot, not by choice in the past, and I think the ability for
those bots to service you much more efficiently, much more effectively and frankly become a
preference over time is a real reality that we'll see playing out over the coming months and years.
Buscaino, Raquel: And I'd like to double click just a little bit more into the first example that you
mentioned, which was around this idea of content supply chain. You mapped out pretty clearly all the
different ways that AI can be a part of this, but I like that term content supply chain. The words I heard
were: efficiency, optimization, personalization, streamlined. What's the biggest barrier towards an
organization thinking about their content supply chain? If I'm listening to this, I'm like, sign me up! But
what do I have to do to be able to make that come to fruition?
McLain, Simon: So the term content supply chain is a bit of an analog for a typical supply chain. Right
where things get produced, they get moved around, and then they get distributed ultimately to an end
customer consumer. You could think about the same analog for content. Content gets produced, it gets
distributed and ultimately consumed by an end customer or consumer. Content supply chain is all about
driving content creation and execution at scale without sacrificing quality. And that last piece is what's
really new. And this themes of kind of personalization which I mentioned but also localization. You can
envision so many global companies needing to build global campaigns, distribute content globally. Well,
that gets perceived and consumed very differently in different markets. And Generative AI allows you to
do what used to be very expensive and very time consuming which is localized and personalized content
to different audiences around the globe. And that part has been really exciting, and I think is one of
those that's really here today.
Buscaino, Raquel: Part of the challenge organizations might be facing is figuring out what they should
prioritize first. If you look up AI use cases, you can probably get a list of a thousand ways that you could
utilize AI. So what's the low hanging fruit here? And then what are the applications that are high effort
but high reward that companies should explore in the longer run?
McLain, Simon: The theme in the shorter term is efficiency. And I think a lot of what we [as Deloitte] see
organizations focused on that we're helping organizations with is creating more efficient workflows,
leveraging Generative AI and AI technology. And, as I mentioned, I think elements of marketing as well
as elements of customer support is where we're seeing a lot of that center of gravity. If we're talking in
Olympic terms of kind of the bronze medal. Increasingly, we'll see kind of the silver medalists, if you will,
focused on experience and taking not just efficiency gains, but would start to create more of bespoke
experiences for customers and consumers. I think the gold medal, if you will, which is still a little while
out, is, Generative AI or AI for growth, and using it to create, net new revenue streams for organizations.
So if you think about a maturity curve, I think efficiency moving to experience, moving to net new
revenue opportunities will be the maturity scale we see kind of play out in across industries.
Buscaino, Raquel: I love the way you mentioned that the switch from efficiency to growth. You know,
when we kicked off our conversation one of the things we talked about was how AI is challenging
assumptions. And so, as part of unlocking that growth opportunity, this net-new revenue streams asking
yourself ‘what are the assumptions we've had before, that we need to start challenging actively,
because growth vehicles that we thought might have been previously elusive, are now within reach?’ Is
that the question to ask when we think about these net-new growth revenue streams?
McLain, Simon: Yeah, I think it's definitely one of them. A big part of why, some of these opportunities
either haven't been considered or haven't been pursued, is they've been very expensive, and I think
what Generative AI and AI will bring is a whole different model by which to pursue different types of
growth opportunities that in the past may have been, not viable or not economical. And I know that's
painting with a broad brush. And I think in in the coming years we'll see entry into a whole bunch of new
markets with new supporting business models that we haven't seen that's supported by this new
technology.
Buscaino, Raquel: On one of the previous podcasts, we talked about this idea of prompting and how the
ability to ask good questions is important now more than ever. And so part of the reason I wanted to ask
you about what questions should I be asking to unlock those growth vehicles is because I think the
premium on good questions is higher than it has ever been before.
McLain, Simon: I think, premium on good questions and then premium on good data. And I think those
are two of the big themes we're seeing. That the idea of prompt engineering has become a part of our
common vernacular given how important it is to ask questions in the ways that are required to get the
best possible answers. And I think on the flip side, a lot of what we are working with organizations on is
the data side and ensure that especially for the data that's being required to support some of the
models that enable customer interactions. The quality of that data, the nuance of that data, the breadth
of that data is going to dictate to a large extent the quality of what comes out of these models to
support those interactions. So I think promptings a really important theme. I think data as the input to
these models is a really important theme, and those things coming together will help support much
more tailored interactions that are commensurate with the brands that our organizations want to
communicate to their own customers or consumers.
Buscaino, Raquel: Yeah. The way I'm thinking about it trying to bring it to life. When I think about maybe
data as it relates to a marketing campaign. Is it safe to say that I could create, bespoke localized content,
and then track that data to see what's performing higher, right? That type of data could inform the
Generative AI capabilities that are then produced back to me. Is that a good way of thinking about? Or
should I be thinking about the intersection a bit differently?
McLain, Simon: No, I think so. And you know there's been a lot of talk about large language models,
right? Which are kind of these multi-purpose models that everyone has been interacting with. I think
increasingly, we're going to see a trend towards more domain specific models. And what I mean by that
is, you could imagine the marketing domain having its own specific models that's informed by and
tailored to what an individual organization wants to leverage that model for. And again, if you think
about customer interactions that's going to be largely in marketing and sales and in customer support.
And I think you will see models starting to rise up that are very domain specific and built for purpose for
those types of customer interactions.
Buscaino, Raquel: It's funny because we're talking a lot about content personalization for the customer.
And this idea of large language models and trending towards more domain specific models is
personalization for the customer as the enterprise that's producing that. So it's a whole another layer of
personalization.
McLain, Simon: I think that's exactly the right way to think about it.
Buscaino, Raquel: So we've talked about so many different use cases, opportunities, ways to be thinking
about the future of AI. Every emerging technology has risks, considerations that should be top of mind.
And I think AI in particular here. In the context of these customer interactions, what are the important
risk and challenges that you think are worthwhile calling out?
McLain, Simon: Yeah, I think one is, there's the difference between enabling someone to interact with
the customer and Generative AI interacting directly with the customer. You know right now a lot of the
investment and a lot of the maturity is Generative AI enabling interaction, but with human intervention
before that interaction…communication message is actually shared with an ewe nd consumer or
customer. A lot of those risks are being mitigated by having human intervention and kind of being the
filter before those contacts communications content is ultimately shared, shared externally.
Buscaino, Raquel: That's an interesting frame. It's not like AI isn't being used today or information and
data aren't being used in those customer interactions. It's just that I, as the end user, might not be
directly exposed to it. So the only net-delta is where AI is being used in that interface or interaction
layer, not whether or not it's being used but, it's more about the curtain being lifted just a little bit
more, and us as a consumer or customer being okay with that curtain being lifted too.
McLain, Simon: Yeah, I think that's right. And I've you know, talked about marketing and customer
support. Another set of use cases just kind of the second tier down is around sales. And if you think
about B2B sales, a B2B customer may be interacting with another organization or talking to a sales rep.
Increasingly that sales rep is using Generative AI to actually prepare for those meetings and discussions;
synthesizing past interactions, past sales, preparing marketing materials. And they're showing up to
those interactions without the customer they're talking with acknowledging or understanding they're
actually using Generative AI to prepare.
Buscaino, Raquel: And it allows those folks to do what they do best, which is interacting with humans
and establishing that relation and being more human.
McLain, Simon: And the most value add, and if you're a salesperson, that the act of selling is the most
important, and as you said, the most human element of what they do, and a lot of that preparation time
that you don't see is actually where they spend a disproportionate amount of their time and
tremendous opportunity that we're seeing with organizations we're working with on how to streamline
that process and use sales time for selling, not preparing to sell.
Buscaino, Raquel: So let's say I'm putting the future hat on right now, let's say we're having this
conversation in five years. We'll say 2030 just to keep it even. What do you expect will become table
stakes by then? Because sometimes we'll joke on my team that today's innovation is tomorrow's legacy
application. So what have we chatted about today that you think will be so normalized in five years. It'll
feel almost legacy by then?
McLain, Simon: Well, I think we touched on it briefly. But you know, back to that theme of kind of
automation and efficiency that that will be table stakes. That the way work gets done within large
organizations, across customer facing functions will look very different and that will just be how
organizations work. I think experience will also be table stakes, and to the extent that this ambition of
personalization at scale or delivering personalized engagement across the breadth of channels will be
something that we, as customers or consumers come to expect. And I think us having this conversation
in 2030, we'll be talking about a whole bunch of new models that are not in place today, that people are
just starting to consider. And we'll be looking back, saying, ‘Wow, it's amazing how organizations have
grown by fundamentally using this technology in new ways that we're not contemplating right now.’
And I think that will be the theme five years from now.
Buscaino, Raquel: I love that. And I also love what you mentioned, too, that personalization will be the
expectation, whereas I, as a consumer might say, listen, if you're not giving me hyper-localized Los
Angeles content you don't care enough about me as your consumer. It's a total reframe from an
advantage to an expectation that might happen really quickly.
McLain, Simon: And as I said, I think, that has been a promise for a while, and I think the technology is
has arrived that will allow us to achieve that ambition, and, as you said, that will become table stakes,
and the expectations for how we expect to be engaged by different types of organizations.
Buscaino, Raquel: Definitely. So Simon, like final concluding thought here. What's something that you are
just actively excited about when it comes to this? I know you mentioned a lot but would love to hear just
one thing.
McLain, Simon: I think that this whole theme of kind of humans with machines is what excites me most,
and the way we spend our time the ambitions we have are not always aligned. And I think this
technology will allow us to, as individuals, as employees, as consumers, achieve so much more than we
could have without it. And our ambition, but also our potential as humans, I do feel will be fulfilled in
different and unique ways because we can leverage this technology in the ways that makes us better.
That allows us to fulfill our potential. And I think that will play, you know, hugely out for companies that
are looking to grow their top and bottom line, but also for society at large as this technology becomes
adopted and this idea of human potential becomes much more front and center in terms of how this
technology is used each and every day.
Buscaino, Raquel: What a beautiful world, where we are unlocking, more potential each and every day!
That's that is the world I want to live in. Awesome, Simon. Thank you so much for such a great
discussion. This is really wonderful.
McLain, Simon: Great to be here, Raquel, really appreciate it.
Buscaino, Raquel: Awesome, and to all our tech savvy listeners. If you enjoyed this episode, please share
and subscribe, and if you'd like to learn more about how to leverage AI in Customer Interactions you can
follow myself and Simon to stay up to date. Our socials are listed in the episode description thanks for
tuning in, and I'll see you on our next episode. Until then, stay savvy.
